CHAPTER III. STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE. How do those groups of species,
which constitute what are called distinct genera and which differ from each
other more than do the species of the same genus, arise? All these
results, as we shall more fully see in the next chapter, follow from the
struggle for life. But the expression often used by Mr. Herbert Spencer, of the
Survival of the Fittest, is more accurate, and is sometimes equally
convenient. But Natural Selection, we shall hereafter see, is a power
incessantly ready for action, and is as immeasurably superior to man's
feeble efforts, as the works of Nature are to those of Art. In
my future work this subject will be treated, as it well deserves, at
greater length. In regard to plants, no one has treated this subject with
more spirit and ability than W. Herbert, Dean of Manchester, evidently the
result of his great horticultural knowledge. THE TERM, STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE, USED IN A LARGE SENSE. The mistletoe is
dependent on the apple and a few other trees, but can only in a far-fetched
sense be said to struggle with these trees, for, if too many of these
parasites grow on the same tree, it languishes and dies. But several
seedling mistletoes, growing close together on the same branch, may more
truly be said to struggle with each other. In these
several senses, which pass into each other, I use for convenience sake the
general term of Struggle for Existence. GEOMETRICAL RATIO OF INCREASE. A struggle for existence inevitably follows from the high rate at which all
organic beings tend to increase. Hence we
may confidently assert that all plants and animals are tending to increase
at a geometrical ratio--that all would rapidly stock every station in which
they could any how exist, and that this geometrical tendency to increase
must be checked by destruction at some period of life. Our familiarity
with the larger domestic animals tends, I think, to mislead us; we see no
great destruction falling on them, and we do not keep in mind that
thousands are annually slaughtered for food, and that in a state of nature
an equal number would have somehow to be disposed of. The Fulmar petrel lays but one
egg, yet it is believed to be the most numerous bird in the world. NATURE OF THE CHECKS TO INCREASE. Look at the most vigorous species; by as much as it swarms
in numbers, by so much will it tend to increase still further. We know not
exactly what the checks are even in a single instance. Eggs or very young animals seem generally to
suffer most, but this is not invariably the case. Seedlings, also, are destroyed in vast
numbers by various enemies; for instance, on a piece of ground three feet
long and two wide, dug and cleared, and where there could be no choking
from other plants, I marked all the seedlings of our native weeds as they
came up, and out of 357 no less than 295 were destroyed, chiefly by slugs
and insects. For in such cases, we may believe, that a
plant could exist only where the conditions of its life were so favourable
that many could exist together, and thus save the species from utter
destruction. I will give only a single instance, which, though a
simple one, interested me. Here we
see how potent has been the effect of the introduction of a single tree,
nothing whatever else having been done, with the exception of the land
having been enclosed, so that cattle could not enter. Perhaps Paraguay offers the most curious instance of this; for
here neither cattle nor horses nor dogs have ever run wild, though they
swarm southward and northward in a feral state; and Azara and Rengger have
shown that this is caused by the greater number in Paraguay of a certain
fly, which lays its eggs in the navels of these animals when first born. Nearly all our orchidaceous
plants absolutely require the visits of insects to remove their
pollen-masses and thus to fertilise them. In the case of every species, many different checks, acting at different
periods of life, and during different seasons or years, probably come into
play; some one check or some few being generally the most potent, but all
will concur in determining the average number, or even the existence of the
species. In some cases it can be shown that widely-different checks act on
the same species in different districts. When we look at the plants and
bushes clothing an entangled bank, we are tempted to attribute their
proportional numbers and kinds to what we call chance. In the case of varieties of the same species, the struggle will generally
be almost equally severe, and we sometimes see the contest soon decided: 
for instance, if several varieties of wheat be sown together, and the mixed
seed be resown, some of the varieties which best suit the soil or climate,
or are naturally the most fertile, will beat the others and so yield more
seed, and will consequently in a few years supplant the other varieties. STRUGGLE FOR LIFE MOST SEVERE BETWEEN INDIVIDUALS AND VARIETIES OF THE SAME
SPECIES. Yet the advantage of the plumed seeds no
doubt stands in the closest relation to the land being already thickly
clothed with other plants; so that the seeds may be widely distributed and
fall on unoccupied ground. Look at a plant in the midst of its range! We know that it can perfectly well withstand a
little more heat or cold, dampness or dryness, for elsewhere it ranges into
slightly hotter or colder, damper or drier districts. Probably in no single instance should we know what to do.