CHAPTER III. STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE. Before entering on the subject of this chapter I must make a few
preliminary remarks to show how the struggle for existence bears on natural
selection. It has been seen in the last chapter that among organic beings
in a state of nature there is some individual variability:  indeed I am not
aware that this has ever been disputed. Again, it may be asked, how is it that varieties, which I have called
incipient species, become ultimately converted into good and distinct
species, which in most cases obviously differ from each other far more than
do the varieties of the same species? But the expression often used by Mr. Herbert Spencer, of the
Survival of the Fittest, is more accurate, and is sometimes equally
convenient. We will now discuss in a little more detail the struggle for existence. In
my future work this subject will be treated, as it well deserves, at
greater length. THE TERM, STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE, USED IN A LARGE SENSE. Two canine animals, in a time of dearth, may be truly said to
struggle with each other which shall get food and live. In these
several senses, which pass into each other, I use for convenience sake the
general term of Struggle for Existence. The condor lays a
couple of eggs and the ostrich a score, and yet in the same country the
condor may be the more numerous of the two. But this difference does not determine how many individuals of the two
species can be supported in a district. The causes which check the natural tendency of each species to increase are
most obscure. Eggs or very young animals seem generally to
suffer most, but this is not invariably the case. Seedlings, also, are destroyed in vast
numbers by various enemies; for instance, on a piece of ground three feet
long and two wide, dug and cleared, and where there could be no choking
from other plants, I marked all the seedlings of our native weeds as they
came up, and out of 357 no less than 295 were destroyed, chiefly by slugs
and insects. If turf which has long been mown, and the case would be the
same with turf closely browsed by quadrupeds, be let to grow, the more
vigorous plants gradually kill the less vigorous, though fully grown
plants; thus out of twenty species grown on a little plot of mown turf
(three feet by four) nine species perished, from the other species being
allowed to grow up freely. is an extraordinarily
severe mortality from epidemics with man. The action of climate seems at
first sight to be quite independent of the struggle for existence; but in
so far as climate chiefly acts in reducing food, it brings on the most
severe struggle between the individuals, whether of the same or of distinct
species, which subsist on the same kind of food. But this is a false view; we forget that each species,
even where it most abounds, is constantly suffering enormous destruction at
some period of its life, from enemies or from competitors for the same
place and food; and if these enemies or competitors be in the least degree
favoured by any slight change of climate, they will increase in numbers;
and as each area is already fully stocked with inhabitants, the other
species must decrease. Thus we can easily raise plenty of corn and
rape-seed, etc., COMPLEX RELATIONS OF ALL ANIMALS AND PLANTS TO EACH OTHER IN THE STRUGGLE
FOR EXISTENCE. No wonder that, as soon as the land was enclosed, it became
thickly clothed with vigorously growing young firs. Not that
under nature the relations will ever be as simple as this. But how false a
view is this! We see this in the recent extension over parts of the United
States of one species of swallow having caused the decrease of another
species. The recent increase of the missel-thrush in parts of Scotland has
caused the decrease of the song-thrush. In Russia the small Asiatic cockroach has everywhere driven
before it its great congener. This is obvious in the
structure of the teeth and talons of the tiger; and in that of the legs and
claws of the parasite which clings to the hair on the tiger's body. The store of nutriment laid up within the seeds of many plants seems at
first sight to have no sort of relation to other plants. Look at a plant in the midst of its range! Why does it not double or
quadruple its numbers? On the confines of its
geographical range, a change of constitution with respect to climate would
clearly be an advantage to our plant; but we have reason to believe that
only a few plants or animals range so far, that they are destroyed
exclusively by the rigour of the climate. Not until we reach the extreme
confines of life, in the Arctic regions or on the borders of an utter
desert, will competition cease. It is good thus to try in imagination to give any one species an advantage
over another. Probably in no single instance should we know what to do.