 MOSSES FROM AN OLD MANSE
 By Nathaniel Hawthorne
 A SELECT PARTY
 
 The man of fancy made an entertainment at one of his castles in the air, and invited a select number of distinguished personages to favor him with their presence. Fortunately, there was just then a flood of evening sunshine in the air. Had they been worthy to pass within its portal, they would have recognized the truth, that the dominions which the spirit conquers for itself among unrealities become a thousand times more real than the earth whereon they stamp their feet, saying, "This is solid and substantial; this may be called a fact." He leaned upon a staff, the tremulous stroke of which, as he set it carefully upon the floor, re-echoed through the saloon at every footstep. But are you sure that it is built of solid materials and that the structure will be permanent?" But it will endure long enough to answer all the purposes for which it was erected." The old gentleman, in fact, was a good deal overcome by his journey among the clouds, which, to a frame so earth-incrusted by long continuance in a lower region, was unavoidably more fatiguing than to younger spirits. And who does the reader imagine was this unobtrusive guest? With a generosity with which he alone sets us an example, we will glance merely at his nobler attributes. Coming at last to the Oldest Inhabitant, who was slumbering comfortably in the easy-chair, he applied his mouth to that venerable ear. cried the old gentleman, starting from his nap and putting up his hand to serve the purpose of an ear-trumpet. "Never within my memory," exclaimed the Oldest Inhabitant, lifting his hands in astonishment, "has so remarkable an incident been heard of." He soon, indeed, got into a corner with his acquaintance of long ago, the Oldest Inhabitant, and began to compare notes with him in reference to the great storms, gales of wind, and other atmospherical facts that had occurred during a century past. Besides, being covered with dust from his continual wanderings along the highways of the world, he really looked out of place in a dress party; so that the host felt relieved of an incommodity when the restless individual in question, after a brief stay, took his departure on a ramble towards Oregon. Hardly could the host's punctilious courtesy restrain a smile as he paid his respects to this unreality and met the sentimental glance with which the Dream sought to remind him of their former love passages. "So be it," said the cruel Man of Fancy to himself; "and a good riddance too." Almost immediately after the unrealities just described, arrived a number of guests whom incredulous readers may be inclined to rank equally among creatures of imagination. Yet he was a young man in poor attire, with no insignia of rank or acknowledged eminence, nor anything to distinguish him among the crowd except a high, white forehead, beneath which a pair of deep-set eyes were glowing with warm light. And who was he? How this child of a mighty destiny had been discovered by the Man of Fancy it is of little consequence to mention. said one. " There can never be an American genius." And the Oldest Inhabitant, when it was proposed to introduce him to the Master Genius, begged to be excused, observing that a man who had been honored with the acquaintance of Dwight, and Freneau, and Joel Barlow, might be allowed a little austerity of taste. do you know him?" whispered Monsieur On-Dit, who seemed to be acquainted with everybody. " He is the representative of Posterity, ─ the man of an age to come." The fellow infringes upon our rights by coming before his time." "But you forget where we are," answered the Man of Fancy, who overheard the remark. " As to your verses, pray read them to your contemporaries. One of these rooms was filled with moonlight, which did not enter through the window, but was the aggregate of all the moonshine that is scattered around the earth on a summer night while no eyes are awake to enjoy its beauty. You young folks, I suppose, can see your way through these strange matters. "Ah, well said!" As for drinkables, the temperance people contented themselves with water as usual; but it was the water of the Fountain of Youth; the ladies sipped Nepenthe; the lovelorn, the careworn, and the sorrow-stricken were supplied with brimming goblets of Lethe; and it was shrewdly conjectured that a certain golden vase, from which only the more distinguished guests were invited to partake, contained nectar that had been mellowing ever since the days of classical mythology. "Mercy on me!" Many of the company had bespoken will-o'-the-wisps to convoy them home; and the host, in his general beneficence, had engaged the Man in the Moon, with an immense horn-lantern, to be the guide of such desolate spinsters as could do no better for themselves. But a blast of the rising tempest blew out all their lights in the twinkling of an eye.