 MOSSES FROM AN OLD MANSE
 By Nathaniel Hawthorne
 A SELECT PARTY
 
 The man of fancy made an entertainment at one of his castles in the air, and invited a select number of distinguished personages to favor him with their presence. At the appointed hour, the host stood in his great saloon to receive the company. To each of these pillars a meteor was suspended. It was like the brilliancy of a powerful yet chastened imagination, ─ a light which seemed to hide whatever was unworthy to be noticed and give effect to every beautiful and noble attribute. He leaned upon a staff, the tremulous stroke of which, as he set it carefully upon the floor, re-echoed through the saloon at every footstep. Recognizing at once this celebrated personage, whom it had cost him a vast deal of trouble and research to discover, the host advanced nearly three fourths of the distance down between the pillars to meet and welcome him. "Never within my recollection," observed he, "have I entered a more spacious and noble hall. In reference to a lifetime like your own, it is true my castle may well be called a temporary edifice. He it is, then, who prefers the interests of others to his own and a humble station to an exalted one. He then assured the Man of Fancy that he would not fail to circulate in the society of the lower world a minute description of this magnificent castle in the air and of the festivities at which he had the honor to be a guest. "What do you say?" "No, no, fair lady," murmured he betwixt sighing and smiling; "my taste is changed; I have learned to love what Nature makes better than my own creations in the guise of womanhood." "So be it," said the cruel Man of Fancy to himself; "and a good riddance too." Almost immediately after the unrealities just described, arrived a number of guests whom incredulous readers may be inclined to rank equally among creatures of imagination. And who was he? How this child of a mighty destiny had been discovered by the Man of Fancy it is of little consequence to mention. Suffice it that he dwells as yet unhonored among men, unrecognized by those who have known him from his cradle; the noble countenance which should be distinguished by a halo diffused around it passes daily amid the throng of people toiling and troubling themselves about the trifles of a moment, and none pay reverence to the worker of immortality. Nor does it matter much to him, in his triumph over all the ages, though a generation or two of his own times shall do themselves the wrong to disregard him. said one. " There can never be an American genius." For my part, I desire to see no better." Among the latest comers, as might reasonably be expected, arrived a guest from the far future. "Do you know him? "And how came he here?" "But you forget where we are," answered the Man of Fancy, who overheard the remark. " As to your verses, pray read them to your contemporaries. And here, likewise, where the unrealized conceptions of youthful poets who died of the very strength of their own genius before the world had caught one inspired murmur from their lips. When the peculiarities of the library and statue-gallery were explained to the Oldest Inhabitant, he appeared infinitely perplexed, and exclaimed, with more energy than usual, that he had never heard of such a thing within his memory, and, moreover, did not at all understand how it could be. "But my brain, I think," said the good old gentleman, "is getting not so clear as it used to be. For my part, I give it up." It is enough to puzzle the ─ Ahem!" "My fellow-guests," he remarked aloud, after carefully noting the signs of the night, "I advise such of you as live at a distance to be going as soon as possible; for a thunder-storm is certainly at hand." "Mercy on me!" How shall I ever get home?" But a blast of the rising tempest blew out all their lights in the twinkling of an eye. People should think of these matters before they trust themselves on a pleasure-party into the realm of Nowhere.