 THE DOLIVER ROMANCE AND OTHER PIECES
 TALES AND SKETCHES
 By Nathaniel Hawthorne
 AN OLD WOMAN'S TALE
 
 In the house where I was born, there used to be an old woman crouching all day long over the kitchen fire, with her elbows on her knees and her feet in the ashes. There are a thousand of her traditions lurking in the corners and by-places of my mind, some more marvellous than what is to follow, some less so, and a few not marvellous in the least, all of which I should like to repeat, if I were as happy as she in having a listener. They were distant relatives, sprung from a stock once wealthy, but of late years so poverty-stricken, that David had not a penny to pay the marriage fee, if Esther should consent to wed. The seat they had chosen was in an open grove of elm and walnut trees, at a right angle of the road; a spring of diamond water just bubbled into the moonlight beside them, and then whimpered away through the bushes and long grass, in search of a neighboring millstream. The houses had generally an odd look. "What a beautiful night it is, Esther!" "Very beautiful," answered the girl, in the same tone. "But how still!" continued David. said Esther, with a faint shudder, like a modest leaf when the wind kisses it. Four personages, very different from these, stood in front of the large house with its periwig of creeping plants. asked David. "Don't you see she is lame?" said Esther. The little man in goldlace now happened to see her, and made his approach on tiptoe. "Go and help her, David," said Esther, compassionately. But now there was a sudden movement throughout the multitude. Now whither these people went, is more than may be told; only David and Esther seemed to see the shadowy splendor of the ancient dame, as she lingered in the moonshine at the graveyard gate, gazing backward to the fountain. cried David, starting up, and rubbing his eyes. "And I such another!" "About an old woman with gold-bowed spectacles," continued David. "And why not to-night, David?" David felt the propriety of the remark and looked round for the means of following her advice. ─ what have we here?"