The Reluctant Orchid
Arthur C. Clarke
1956 Renown Publishing Co. Inc.




Though few people in the "White Hart" will concede that any of Harry Purvis' stories are actually true, everyone agrees that some are much more probable than others. His needs were simple and he spent very little money on himself; consequently his collection of orchids and cacti was really rather remarkable. It was a curious kind of relationship: probably Henrietta found that Hercules bolstered up her feelings of superiority. She was patronizing, but never unkind. He had to be polite to Aunt Henrietta even when he felt like murder. When Hercules first saw it, it was not a very prepossessing sight, even to anyone who loved orchids as much as he did. The rate of growth was now really fantastic: soon the plant was taller than Hercules, not that that was saying a great deal. In the morning, the orchid was fringed by a series of eight dangling tendrils, almost reaching to the ground. It was quite a while before he could recall what it was: then he said to himself, "Of course! How stupid of me!" Hercules went home in a very unsettled mood indeed. "Jumping Jehosophat!" By the next day, a network of what looked like short roots had covered the still visible chunk of meat. There were times when it almost gave him nightmares, and
he foresaw a whole range of horrid possibilities. Whenever he chose, he could become the most famous orchid-grower in the world. The creature was now about six feet tall, and apparently still growing-though much more slowly than it had been. All the other plants had been moved from its end of the conservatory, not so much because Hercules feared that it might be cannibalistic as to enable him to tend them without danger. Henrietta never guessed that as he poured the tea Hercules often wished it was poisoned: she was, far down beneath her extensive fortifications, a fundamentally good-hearted person and the knowledge would have upset her deeply. He had occasionally shown her his most interesting specimens, but this was something he was keeping to himself. The distraught nephew would arrive on the scene too late to be of assistance, and when the police answered his frantic call they would see at a glance that the whole affair was a deplorable accident. True, there would be an inquest, but the coroner's censure would be toned down in view of Hercules' obvious grief...
The more he thought of the idea, the more he liked it. He could see no flaws, as long as the orchid co-operated. At such times its high-pitched squeak was clearly audible, and Hercules wondered how it managed to produce the sound. Perhaps Aunt Henrietta, if all went well, would have a brief opportunity of discovering these interesting facts-though she would probably be too busy to report them for the benefit of posterity. This was a problem that worried him for some weeks, during which time he would look speculatively at every dog or cat he passed in the street, but he finally abandoned the idea, for a rather peculiar reason. Aunt Henrietta would have to be the first victim. Wonders will never cease! She slapped him playfully on the back and shot all the air out of his lungs. It's in the observatory." said Auntie, obviously puzzled. "Yes-come along and have a look. It's going to create a real sensation." Auntie gave a snort that might have indicated disbelief, but followed Hercules without further question. It produces the most stunning results. "I can promise you it's no joke  replied Hercules, standing with his hand on the light switch. "Hercules!" "N-no, auntie  he quavered. " I guess it's naturally nervous." "Well, I'm used to animals. With surprising gentleness, Aunt Henrietta fussed over the beast, patting and stroking it until the tentacles relaxed and the shrill, whistling scream died away. As for Hercules, there is no chance that he will ever give any

more trouble to either of them. The harmless variety, of course....