The Reluctant Orchid
Arthur C. Clarke
1956 Renown Publishing Co. Inc.




Though few people in the "White Hart" will concede that any of Harry Purvis' stories are actually true, everyone agrees that some are much more probable than others. He had to be polite to Aunt Henrietta even when he felt like murder. The rate of growth was now really fantastic: soon the plant was taller than Hercules, not that that was saying a great deal. Despite all his watchfulness, the transformation occurred one night while he was asleep. They must have developed inside the plant and emerged with-for the vegetable world-explosive speed. A few days later, there was no doubt about it at all. How stupid of me!" and went along to the local library. But, really, this was ridiculous! For a moment, nothing happened. They wrapped themselves round the meat, and Hercules felt a powerful tug at the end of his broomstick. Then the meat was gone: the orchid was clutching it, if one may mix metaphors slightly, to its bosom. yelled Hercules. It was very seldom indeed that he used such strong language. But, of course, there was not the slightest danger of that. It was typical of his somewhat restricted view-point that it never occurred to him that other people besides orchid-fanciers might be interested in his pet. The creature was now about six feet tall, and apparently still growing-though much more slowly than it had been. There were times, just before a meal, when he fancied he could hear an incredibly high-pitched whistle, skirting the edge of audibility. A new-born bat might have had such a voice: he wondered what purpose it served. This did nothing to endear her to Hercules, who hated blood sports. Henrietta never guessed that as he poured the tea Hercules often wished it was poisoned: she was, far down beneath her extensive fortifications, a fundamentally good-hearted person and the knowledge would have upset her deeply. Why, it would be the perfect crime. He could see no flaws, as long as the orchid co-operated. Wonders will never cease! What have

you been up to, you rascal?" It's in the observatory." "Yes-come along and have a look. It's going to create a real sensation." Hercules thought this unlikely. "Sorry, auntie  apologized Hercules, propelling her forward through the gloom. " It produces the most stunning results. "I hope this isn't a joke  said Auntie suspiciously, as she stomped forward. He could just see the looming bulk of the orchid: Auntie was now within ten feet of it. For a moment Hercules was afraid she would retreat before the plant could get into action: then he saw that she was calmly scrutinizing it, unable to make up her mind what the devil it was. Then the dangling tentacles flashed into action-but not in the way that Hercules had expected. His orchid was an utter coward. "Hercules!" Have you been bullying it?" I guess it's naturally nervous." You must treat them firmly-but gently. After a few minutes of this pandering, it appeared to get over its fright. The smell, which had so far been confined to the conservatory, began to creep into the house...
And there, concluded Harry Purvis, as he brought this improbable narrative to a close, the matter rests-to the satisfaction of two, at any rate, of the parties concerned.