 MOSSES FROM AN OLD MANSE
 By Nathaniel Hawthorne
 PASSAGES FROM A RELINQUISHED WORK
 
 AT HOME
 From infancy I was under the guardianship of a village parson, who made me the subject of daily prayer and the sufferer of innumerable stripes, using no distinction, as to these marks of paternal love, between myself and his own three boys. The result, it must be owned, has been very different in their cases and mine, they being all respectable men and well settled in life; the eldest as the successor to his father's pulpit, the second as a physician, and the third as a partner in a wholesale shoe-store; while I, with better prospects than either of them, have run the course which this volume will describe. An orphan's fate is hard, be he rich or poor. I do not over-estimate my notoriety when I take it for granted that many of my readers must have heard of me in the wild way of life which I adopted. The project was not more extravagant than most which a young man forms. Stranger ones are executed every day; and, not to mention my prototypes in the East, and the wandering orators and poets whom my own ears have heard, I had the example of one illustrious itinerant in the other hemisphere, ─ of Goldsmith, who planned and performed his travels through France and Italy on a less promising scheme than mine. With each specimen will be given a sketch of the circumstances in which the story was told. A FLIGHT IN THE FOG. It was singular that such an unromantic scene should look so visionary. In truth, I had never felt such a delicious excitement nor known what freedom was till that moment when I gave up my home and took the whole world in exchange, fluttering the wings of my spirit as if I would have flown from one star to another through the universe. I waved my hand towards the dusky village, bade it a joyous farewell, and turned away to follow any path but that which might lead me back. I had never known before that a bow could be generated between the sunshine and the morning mist. I had determined not to enter on my profession within a hundred miles of home, and then to cover myself with a fictitious name. On hearing my footsteps he started up rather nervously, and, turning round, showed the face of a young man about my own age, with his finger in a volume which he had been reading till my intrusion. Though I piqued myself at that period on my great penetration into people's characters and pursuits, I could not decide whether this young man in black were an unfledged divine from Andover, a college student, or preparing for college at some academy. I have something to eat in my bundle; and, if you can make a dinner with me, you shall be welcome." However, he said nothing, and produced part of a loaf of bread and some cheese, the former being evidently home baked, though some days out of the oven. At the end of the meal he returned thanks with the same tremulous fervor. He felt a natural kindness for me after thus relieving my necessities, and showed it by becoming less reserved. At your home?" "Yes," said I, smiling. "Perhaps our roads are not the same," observed he. We are all pilgrims and wanderers; but it is strange that we two should meet." I inquired the meaning of this remark, but could obtain no satisfactory reply. "I do not know," said he; "but God knows." And how is your road to be pointed out?" Hitherto I had immensely underrated the difficulties of my idle trade; now I recognized that it demanded nothing short of my whole powers cultivated to the utmost, and exerted with the same prodigality as if I were speaking for a great party or for the nation at large on the floor of the Capitol. But my despair was no ignoble one; for, knowing the impossibility of satisfying myself, even should the world be satisfied, I did my best to overcome it; investigated the causes of every defect; and strove, with patient stubbornness, to remove them in the next attempt. Oddly enough, my success was generally in proportion to the difference between the conception and accomplishment. The house was thin and dull. In two or three places, underneath the flaming bills which announced the Story-Teller, was pasted a small slip of paper, giving notice, in tremulous characters, of a religious meeting to be held at the school-house, where, with divine permission, Eliakim Abbott would address sinners on the welfare of their immortal souls. If a gentleman, how could he have performed the singing girl the night before in No Song, no Supper? Such an enthusiastic uproar was never heard. I never knew the "magic of a name" till I used that of Mr. Higginbotham. The audience, supposing that some enormous joke was appended to this long tail behind, were ineffably delighted, and gave way to such a tumult of approbation that, just as the story closed, the benches broke beneath them and left one whole row of my admirers on the floor. Even in that predicament they continued their applause. I hastened with the letter to my chamber and held it unopened in my hand, while the applause of my buffoonery yet sounded through the theatre. The stern old man appeared again, but now with the gentleness of sorrow, softening his authority with love as a father might, and even bending his venerable head, as if to say that my errors had an apology in his own mistaken discipline. The thought still haunts me that then I made my irrevocable choice between good and evil fate.