 MOSSES FROM AN OLD MANSE
 By Nathaniel Hawthorne
 PASSAGES FROM A RELINQUISHED WORK
 
 AT HOME
 From infancy I was under the guardianship of a village parson, who made me the subject of daily prayer and the sufferer of innumerable stripes, using no distinction, as to these marks of paternal love, between myself and his own three boys. Nothing but this exercise of the body while delivering his sermons could have supported the good parson's health under the mental toil which they cost him in composition. This would have been a dangerous resolution anywhere in the world; it was fatal in New England. But my chief motives were, discontent with home and a bitter grudge against Parson Thumpcushion, who would rather have laid me in my father's tomb than seen me either a novelist or an actor, two characters which I thus hit upon a method of uniting. With each specimen will be given a sketch of the circumstances in which the story was told. But I write the book for the sake of its moral, which many a dreaming youth may profit by, though it is the experience of a wandering story-teller. I set out on my rambles one morning in June about sunrise. There is a hill towards the west whence the road goes abruptly down, holding a level course through the village and ascending an eminence on the other side, behind which it disappears. Half of the parson's dwelling was a dingy white house, and half of it was a cloud; but Squire Moody's mansion, the grandest in the village, was wholly visible, even the lattice-work of the balcony under the front window; while in another place only two red chimneys were seen above the mist, appertaining to my own paternal residence, then tenanted by strangers. I would have imagined that years had already passed, and I was far away, contemplating that dim picture of my native place, which I should retain in my mind through the mist of time. Naturally enough, I thought of Don Quixote. It was gratified, and by a more poetical phenomenon than the braying of the dappled ass or the neigh of Rosinante. I had never known before that a bow could be generated between the sunshine and the morning mist. He was a slender figure, dressed in black broadcloth, which was none of the finest nor very fashionably cut. His book was evidently a pocket Bible. After a nod, which was duly returned, I made a goblet of oak-leaves, filled and emptied it two or three times, and then remarked, to hit the stranger's classical associations, that this beautiful fountain ought to flow from an urn instead of an old barrel. Had he treated my next observation in the same way, we should have parted without another word. Why should not we find a loaf of bread on this tree as well as a barrel of good liquor at the foot of it?" "There is a loaf of bread on the tree," replied the stranger, without even smiling ─ at a coincidence which made me laugh. " The fare was good enough, with a real welcome, such as his appeared to be. At your home?" "Perhaps our roads are not the same," observed he. To be sure, there was a certain place which I called home; but I have resolved not to see it again till I have been quite round the globe and enter the street on the east as I left it on the west. In the mean time, I have a home everywhere, or nowhere, just as you please to take it." I asked whither he was travelling. "That is strange!" Sometimes even a stupid ass was their guide. "I do not know," said the pilgrim, with perfect simplicity. Without any formal compact, we kept together day after day till our union appeared permanent. I was now far from my native place, but had not yet stepped before the public. Hitherto I had immensely underrated the difficulties of my idle trade; now I recognized that it demanded nothing short of my whole powers cultivated to the utmost, and exerted with the same prodigality as if I were speaking for a great party or for the nation at large on the floor of the Capitol. Not that I ever hoped to be thus qualified. But the next day there appeared to be brighter prospects, the playbills announcing at every corner, on the town-pump, and ─ awful sacrilege! This outrageous flourish of trumpets, be it known, was wholly unauthorized by me, who had merely made an engagement for a single evening, without assuming any more celebrity than the little I possessed. There was room for distrust in regard to the latter. Even in that predicament they continued their applause. His epistle, though I never read it, affected me most painfully. Another train of thought came over me. It is fixed in my mind, and was so at the time, that he had addressed me in a style of paternal wisdom, and love, and reconciliation which I could not have resisted had I but risked the trial.