Terry Pratchett: Troll Bridge

Terry Pratchett
Troll Bridge
 



      The air blew off the mountains, filling the air with fine ice crystals. It was too cold to snow. In weather like this wolves came down into 
      villages, trees in the heart of the forest exploded when they froze. It was an old horse. He lowered himself on to the chilly 
      stones, and blew on his fingers. said the horse. "You must have plenty of treasure stashed away  said the horse. " How about it? Nice and warm. Spent it all. The road here was 
      pitted and cracked. In a few years, no one would know 
      there'd even been a road here. Cohen tried easing himself upright again. "Son  said the horse, helpfully. Well-known fact." Its hooves jiggled nervously on the ruined road. Nice and warm." "A dead troll. That's the point. Just 
      defeat it. "Yeah  he said. It waved a club. The troll blinked. But very carefully. "Because I'm good at it  said the old man. said Cohen the Barbarian. On my bridge! said Cohen. It's 
      all right! You've got me! I'm not arguing! On my 
      bridge!" I'd like to see the look on his face... oh, no! The troll dropped its club and seized one of Cohen's hands. Get up here! Going to take on the bridge when I'm 
      gone, ain't you, Scree. What d'you 
      think o' that, eh? "Are you going to kill our dad?" Kids today. The horse started to snigger. There was silence. "Now you listen to me -" Mica began. That's what being a troll is all about? Pyrites doesn't get little old men! He strolled towards the far end of the bridge, swinging his sword from 
      one hand. He looked up at the troll, and 
      held out the bag. But not today." You tell him about the billy goats, Mr Big Troll!" They watched Beryl usher the young trolls down the bank and into the 
      darkness under the bridge. "You weren't?" Good memories." I've tole him there's bin a troll under this bridge for nigh on 
      five hundred years -"
         "So if you just hand over the treasure  said Cohen, "I'll be getting 
      along." Well-set-up bridge like this?" And 
      you'd never believe what those masons charge. "One of 'em has. All three of 'em? And listen to 'em go on about moving 
      with the times..."
         He turned a big, sad face to Cohen. I want young Scree to be a troll 
      under a bridge after I'm gone. What's wrong with that? What's it all for?" He fingered his sword. " And fences everywhere. Or farmers. "Pushed back all the time  said the troll. " Changing all the time. A lumber mill! Cohen looked up, surprised. It was... well, it was 
      darksome. He's replanting with spruce  said Mica. He says that's why you can sell it." "That's all right. Don't 
      you? "Well, I fought because a big troll with a whip told me to  said Mica, 
      cautiously. " And I think there were some wizards. I'm 
      pretty certain there was a king. But I always thought there'd be some more. "How old are you?"