Terry Pratchett: Troll Bridge

Terry Pratchett
Troll Bridge
 



      The air blew off the mountains, filling the air with fine ice crystals. It was too cold to snow. In weather like this right-thinking people were indoors, in front of 
      the fire, telling stories about heroes. The horse looked like a 
      shrink-wrapped toast rack; the man looked as though the only reason he 
      wasn't falling off was because he couldn't muster the energy. How shall I 
      feel, being eaten because your back's played you up at the wrong moment?" "Still got the old knackaroony  he said. "You ought to pack it in, you know  said the horse. " said the horse. Cohen the Barbarian stayed leaning against the tree. Get a nice warm place by a 
      beach somewhere, what do you say?" "One day you're going to die  said the horse. " The horse turned and looked down towards the gorge. In a few years, no one would know 
      there'd even been a road here. "He said... Son... yes, OK... Son, when you can face down a 
      troll in single combat, then you can do anything." Nice and warm." That's the point. Mano a... troll. "You told me he drove you out of the tribe when you were eleven." Taught me to stand on other people's 
      feet. Cohen got a grip on the saddle and heaved 
      himself fully upright. Cohen 
      fumbled in the saddlebag and pulled out his tobacco pouch. "Yeah  he said. "And you've come all the way out here to do it." When did you last see a bridge with a troll 
      under it? Even the cold and cloudy winter skies seriously 
      reduced the conductivity of a troll's silicon brain, and it had taken it 
      this long to realize that the saddle was unoccupied. But very carefully. "Because I'm good at it  said the old man. "Listen  said the horse, "if he hadn't wrapped sacks round his knees 
      you could have told by the clicking." It took the troll some time to work this out. said Cohen. It's 
      all right! Cohen the Barbarian! The troll dropped its club and seized one of Cohen's hands. He leaned over the parapet. " He turned back to Cohen, his face glowing with happiness and pride. "Beryl's always sayin' we ought to move out, get something better, but 
      I tell her, this bridge has been in our family for generations, there's 
      always been a troll under Death Bridge. His wife glowered at Cohen. " "Rich, is he?" "Now look -" Cohen began. E bestrides the world like a clossus, he said." He don't look very heroic to 
      me. If he's so good, why ain't he rich?" Sitting 
      under a leaky bridge the whole time? I should have listened to my 
      mother! You want me to let our son sit under a bridge waiting for some 
      little old man to kill him? That's what being a troll is all about? "I don't know anything about billy goats  said Mica. " She's always 
      going on about billy goats. They watched Beryl usher the young trolls down the bank and into the 
      darkness under the bridge. "You weren't?" I've tole him there's bin a troll under this bridge for nigh on 
      five hundred years -"
         "So if you just hand over the treasure  said Cohen, "I'll be getting 
      along." The troll's face creased in sudden panic. You're the 
      first one along in months, and that's a fact. "The trouble is, the stones keep on falling out  said the troll. " To tell you the truth, I'm having to 
      work three days a week down at my brother-in-law's lumber mill just to 
      make ends meet." "One of them's in the bridge business, though  said Cohen. "Bridge business? Half the time he ain't even there! "What's wrong with being a troll under a bridge?" He fingered his sword. " And fences everywhere. "I mean  said Cohen, "I've nothing against farms. Or farmers. Like my brother-in-law Chert. A lumber mill! And you should see the mess he's making of Cutshade Forest!" There ain't no spiders now. I used to like that forest. He says that's why you can sell it." "That's all right. Bits fall off all the time, like I said." "It was supposed to be for a bright new future and law and stuff. But there was a king. I can't remember his name. Cohen lit another cigarette and coughed until his eyes 
      watered. "Giving your last dollar to a troll!" "And for three addresses.