Vailima Prayers & Sabbath Morn
 INTRODUCTION
 In every Samoan household the day is closed with prayer and the singing of hymns. No doubt, to many, the evening service is no more than a duty fulfilled. With my husband, prayer, the direct appeal, was a necessity. Sometimes a passing band of hostile warriors, with blackened faces, would peer in at us through the open windows, and often we were forced to pause until the strangely savage, monotonous noise of the native drums had ceased; but no Samoan, nor, I trust, white person, changed his reverent attitude. That evening the prayer seemed unusually short and formal. What is it?' I am sure he had no such premonition. Our fears followed the various vessels, more or less unseaworthy, in which he was making his way from island to island to the atoll where the exiled king, Mataafa, was at that time imprisoned. Purge out of every heart the lurking grudge. Forgetful ourselves, help us to bear cheerfully the forgetfulness of others. AT MORNING
 THE day returns and brings us the petty round of irritating concerns and duties. EVENING
 WE come before Thee, O Lord, in the end of thy day with
 thanksgiving. Our guard is relieved, the service of the day is over, and the hour come to rest. Give us to awake with smiles, give us to labour smiling. Look down upon ourselves and upon our absent dear ones. For his sake, in whose words we now conclude. Teach us the lesson of the trees. When we would despair, let us remember that these also please and serve Thee. FOR THE FAMILY
 AID us, if it be thy will, in our concerns. Bless our family, bless our forest house, bless our island helpers. Thou who hast made for us this place of ease and hope, accept and inflame our gratitude; help us to repay, in service one to another, the debt of thine unmerited benefits and mercies, so that, when the period of our stewardship draws to a conclusion, when the windows begin to be darkened, when the bond of the family is to be loosed, there shall be no
 bitterness of remorse in our farewells. For our sins forgiven or prevented, for our shame unpublished, we bless and thank Thee, O God. Bless to us our extraordinary mercies; if the day come when these must be taken, brace us to play the man under affliction. Accept us, correct us, guide us, thy guilty innocents. If there be any here, sulking as children will, deal with and enlighten him. We are good, and help us to be better. VIII
 A thocht ahint, in runkled breeks,
 A' spiled wi' lyin' by for weeks,
 The guidman follows closs, an' cleiks
 The sonsie misses;
 His sarious face at aince bespeaks
 The day that this is. X
 But hark! XIV
 Here the guidman sall bide awee
 To dwall amang the deid; to see
 Auld faces clear in fancy's e'e;
 Belike to hear
 Auld voices fa'in saft an' slee
 On fancy's ear. what a bonny creed!