Vailima Prayers & Sabbath Morn
 INTRODUCTION
 In every Samoan household the day is closed with prayer and the singing of hymns. I don't think it ever occurred to us that there was any incongruity in the use of the war conch for the peaceful invitation to prayer. He had just learned of the treacherous conduct of one in whom he had every reason to trust. That evening the prayer seemed unusually short and formal. I am sure he had no such premonition. Any Scot will understand that my statement was received seriously. Purge out of every heart the lurking grudge. Spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies. If it may not, give us the strength to encounter that which is to come, that we be brave in peril, constant in tribulation, temperate in wrath, and in all changes of fortune, and, down to the gates of death, loyal and loving one to another. As the clay to the potter, as the windmill to the wind, as children of their sire, we beseech of Thee this help and mercy for Christ's sake. We resign into thy hands our sleeping bodies, our cold hearths, and open doors. As the sun returns in the east, so let our patience be renewed with dawn; as the sun lightens the world, so let our loving-kindness make bright this house of our habitation. ANOTHER FOR EVENING
 LORD, receive our supplications for this house, family, and country. Protect the innocent, restrain the greedy and the treacherous, lead us out of our tribulation into a quiet land. Look down upon ourselves and upon our absent dear ones. Let us lie down without fear and awake and arise with exultation. We thank Thee for good news received. Teach us the lesson of the trees. The sea around us, which this rain recruits, teems with the race of fish; teach us, Lord, the meaning of the fishes. Have mercy on this land and innocent people. Be patient still; suffer us yet awhile longer; - with our broken purposes of good, with our idle endeavours against evil, suffer us awhile longer to endure, and (if it may be) help us to do better. Blind us to the offences of our beloved, cleanse them from our memories, take them out of our mouths for ever. FOR SELF-FORGETFULNESS
 LORD, the creatures of thy hand, thy disinherited children, come before Thee with their incoherent wishes and regrets: Children we are, children we shall be, till our mother the earth hath fed upon our bones. Dry our vain tears, wipe out our vain resentments, help our yet vainer efforts. V
 The lasses, clean frae tap to taes,
 Are busked in crunklin' underclaes;
 The gartened hose, the weel-filled stays,
 The nakit shift,
 A' bleached on bonny greens for days,
 An' white's the drift. Lie a' the fower. XIX
 For noo's the time whan pows are seen
 Nid-noddin' like a mandareen;
 When tenty mithers stap a preen
 In sleepin' weans;
 An' nearly half the parochine
 Forget their pains. XXII
 Wi' snappy unction, hoo he burkes
 The hopes o' men that trust in works,
 Expounds the fau'ts o' ither kirks,
 An' shaws the best o' them
 No muckle better than mere Turks,
 When a's confessed o' them. what a bonny creed! The preacher of the text had thus no original in that particular parish; but when I was a boy he might have been observed in many others; he was then (like the schoolmaster) abroad; and by recent advices, it would seem he has not yet entirely disappeared.