

MIKE RESNICK

THE ROOSEVELT DISPATCHES



Shot and killed a most unusual beast this afternoon. Still awaiting orders, now that San Juan Hill and the
surrounding countryside is secured. It may well be that we should remain here
until we know that the island is totally free from any more of the creatures
that I shot this afternoon. It's quite late. The head was round, and was totally without a nose! I could hear the smack! I turned and raced back the way I had come. However, despite its
many physical attributes, speed was not to be counted among them. It came down the path some forty seconds later. Then it
regained control of itself, stared balefully at me through both eyes – the good
one and the one that had taken three bullets – and began walking toward me,
weapon in hand... and therein I thought I saw a way by which I might finally
disable it. Then it fell into the water, its muzzle – if that is the right
word, and I very much suspect that it isn't – pointing at the creature. It took about five minutes before [felt safe in approaching it – after all, I
had no idea how long it could hold its breath – but sure enough, as I had
hoped, the beast was dead. I have never before seen anything like it, and I will be stuffing and mounting
this specimen for either the American Museum or t he Smithsonian. First, is it possible? Can a complex animal life form exist without gender? Please give me your answers soonest. The V-shaped mouth was most puzzling, for what use can a mouth be to a life form
that has no need of eating? The V-shaped opening is not a mouth at all, but rather a breathing
orifice, which I shall not call a nose simply because it is also the source of
the creature's vocalizations, if I may so term the growls and shrieks that
emanate from it... Perhaps the most interesting feature of the eye is not the multi-faceted' pupil,
nor even the purple-and-brown cornea, which doubtless distorts its ability to
see colors as we do, but rather the bird-like nictitating membrane, (or haw, as
this inner eyelid is called in dogs) which protects it from harm. Assume the animal will weigh
just under a ton, but has remarkable vitality. Please let me know when you have a prototype that I can test in the field, and
please make no mention of this to anyone except the artisans who will be working
on the project. Regards,
Roosevelt

Speech delivered from the balcony above the Columbia Restaurant, Tampa, Florida,
August 3, 1898:

My fellow Americans:

It has lately come to your government's attention that there is a threat to the
national security – indeed, to the security of the world – that currently
lurks in the jungles of Cuba. I was fortunate enough to kill the one I encountered in Cuba, but where there is
one there will certainly be more. Thus far none of the creatures has been discovered in the United States, but I
say to you that it would be foolhardy to wait until they are found before coming
up with an appropriate response. Americans have always been willing to make
sacrifices and take up arms to defend their country, and this will be no
exception. I urge every
red-blooded able-bodied American among you to join me on this greatest of
adventures. School will be starting before I return. Always remember that balance is the key in
all things. The coming days should be just bully! Your Theodore