

MIKE RESNICK

THE ROOSEVELT DISPATCHES



Shot and killed a most unusual beast this afternoon. Tropical rain continues unabated. It may well be that we should remain here
until we know that the island is totally free from any more of the creatures
that I shot this afternoon. It's quite late. I proceeded more cautiously, and in another twenty yards I came to a halt and
found myself facing a thing the size of one of our American grizzlies. The head was round, and was totally without a nose! I could hear the smack! I rolled as I hit the ground, and fired once more from a prone position, right
into the open V of its mouth. This time there was a reaction, and a violent one. I waited until it was facing in my direction again and put a bullet into its
left eye. My movement seemed to have caught its attention, for suddenly it ceased its
ravings and turned to face me. After perhaps sixty yards I chanced
a look back, and saw that the creature was following me. However, despite its
many physical attributes, speed was not to be counted among them. It came down the path some forty seconds later. Still, I couldn't let it continue along the path, because sooner or later it
would come upon my men, who were totally unprepared for it. Then it
regained control of itself, stared balefully at me through both eyes – the good
one and the one that had taken three bullets – and began walking toward me,
weapon in hand... and therein I thought I saw a way by which I might finally
disable it. The sword of heat flew from the creature's hand, spraying its deadly light in
all directions. Then it fell into the water, its muzzle – if that is the right
word, and I very much suspect that it isn't – pointing at the creature. Consider the zebra: were it brown or black, it would be no easier
to spot at, say, a quarter mile, than a wildebeest or topi or prong-horned
deer – but because God saw fit to give it black and white stripes, it stands out
at more than half a mile, giving notice of its presence to all predators,
thereby negating the not ion of protective coloration, for the zebra's stripes
are, if anything, anti-protective, and yet it is one of the most successful
animals in Africa. Thus, while the creature I shot is indeed difficult to pick
out in what I assume to be its natural forest surroundings, I feel that it is
brown by chance rather than design.... Field conditions are rather primitive here, but I counted more than one
hundred separate muscles in the largest of the tentacles, and must assume there
are at least another two hundred that I was unable to discern. This is the only
section of the body that seems crisscrossed with nerves, and it is conceivable
that if the creature can be slowed by shock, a bullet placed in the cluster of
nerves and blood vessels where the tentacle joins the trunk of the body will do
the trick... The brain was a surprise to me. You will simply have to trust me that the threat is a very real one. Furthermore, I urge you not to recall any of our troops, for if my suspicions
are correct we may need all of them and still more. I will be coming to Washington to speak to McKinley personally and try to
convince him of the danger facing us. We have not been obliged to fight for our existence
against any alien challenge – until now. I'm sure the details will be
wired back to the newspapers on a daily basis, but I promise that when I return
we'll sit around a campfire at Sagamore Hill and I'll tell you all the stories
that the press never reported. Give my love to the
children. The coming days should be just bully! Your Theodore