
 
 SNOW-BOUND
 A Winter Idyl
 By JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER
 With Illustrations
 Illustration: Portrait
 Boston
 JAMES R. OSGOOD AND COMPANY,
 Late Ticknor & Fields, and Fields, Osgood, & Co.
 1872
 Entered according to Act of Congress,
 in the years 1865 and 1867, by
 JOHN G. WHITTIER,
 in the Clerk's Office of the District Court
 of the District of Massachusetts. Illustration: Publisher's Device
 In the present edition of "Snow-Bound," the Illustrations are drawn by Mr. HARRY FENN from sketches made by him during a visit to the scene of the poem. AGRIPPA, Occult Philosophy, Book I. chap. Illustration
 SNOW BOUND. The sun that brief December day
 Rose cheerless over hills of gray,
 And, darkly circled, gave at noon
 A sadder light than waning moon. Illustration
 So all night long the storm roared on:
 The morning broke without a sun;
 In tiny spherule traced with lines
 Of Nature's geometric signs,
 In starry flake, and pellicle,
 All day the hoary meteor fell;
 And, when the second morning shone,
 We looked upon a world unknown,
 On nothing we could call our own. A prompt, decisive man, no breath
 Our father wasted: "Boys, a path!" No church-bell lent its Christian tone
 To the savage air, no social smoke
 Curled over woods of snow-hung oak. What matter how the north-wind raved? O Time and Change! Ah, brother! How often since, when all the land
 Was clay in Slavery's shaping hand,
 As if a trumpet called, I've heard
 Dame Mercy Warren's rousing word:
 "Does not the voice of reason cry,
 Claim the first right which Nature gave,
 From the red scourge of bondage fly,
 Nor deign to live a burdened slave!" "Take, eat," he said, "and be content;
 These fishes in my stead are sent
 By Him who gave the tangled ram
 To spare the child of Abraham." Illustration
 For well she kept her genial mood
 And simple faith of maidenhood;
 Before her still a cloud-land lay,
 The mirage loomed across her way;
 The morning dew, that dries so soon
 With others, glistened at her noon;
 Through years of toil and soil and care
 From glossy tress to thin gray hair,
 All unprofaned she held apart
 The virgin fancies of the heart. Be shame to him of woman born
 Who hath for such but thought of scorn. O heart sore-tried! How many a poor one's blessing went
 With thee beneath the low green tent
 Whose curtain never outward swings! Brisk wielder of the birch and rule,
 The master of the district school
 Held at the fire his favored place;
 Its warm glow lit a laughing face
 Fresh-hued and fair, where scarce appeared
 Illustration
 The uncertain prophecy of beard. Happy the snow-locked homes wherein
 He tuned his merry violin,
 Or played the athlete in the barn,
 Or held the good dame's winding yarn,
 Or mirth-provoking versions told
 Of classic legends rare and old,
 Wherein the scenes of Greece and Rome
 Illustration
 Had all the commonplace of home,
 And little seemed at best the odds
 'Twixt Yankee pedlers and old gods;
 Where Pindus-born Araxes took
 The guise of any grist-mill brook,
 And dread Olympus at his will
 Became a huckleberry hill. Illustration
 Another guest that winter night
 Flashed back from lustrous eyes the light. Within our beds awhile we heard
 The wind that round the gables roared,
 With now and then a ruder shock,
 Which made our very bedsteads rock. All hearts confess the saints elect
 Who, twain in faith, in love agree,
 And melt not in an acid sect
 The Christian pearl of charity! Illustration
 At last the floundering carrier bore
 The village paper to our door. Illustration