
 
 SNOW-BOUND
 A Winter Idyl
 By JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER
 With Illustrations
 Illustration: Portrait
 Boston
 JAMES R. OSGOOD AND COMPANY,
 Late Ticknor & Fields, and Fields, Osgood, & Co.
 1872
 Entered according to Act of Congress,
 in the years 1865 and 1867, by
 JOHN G. WHITTIER,
 in the Clerk's Office of the District Court
 of the District of Massachusetts. AGRIPPA, Occult Philosophy, Book I. chap. All day the gusty north-wind bore
 The loosening drift its breath before;
 Low circling round its southern zone,
 The sun through dazzling snow-mist shone. The crane and pendent trammels showed,
 The Turks' heads on the andirons glowed;
 While childish fancy, prompt to tell
 The meaning of the miracle,
 Whispered the old rhyme: "Under the tree,
 When fire outdoors burns merrily,
 There the witches are making tea." Illustration
 What matter how the night behaved? What matter how the north-wind raved? O Time and Change! Ah, brother! Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust,
 (Since He who knows our need is just,)
 That somehow, somewhere, meet we must. Our father rode again his ride
 On Memphremagog's wooded side;
 Illustration
 Sat down again to moose and samp
 In trapper's hut and Indian camp;
 Lived o'er the old idyllic ease
 Beneath St. Franзois' hemlock-trees;
 Again for him the moonlight shone
 On Norman cap and bodiced zone;
 Again he heard the violin play
 Which led the village dance away,
 And mingled in its merry whirl
 The grandam and the laughing girl. Then, haply, with a look more grave,
 And soberer tone, some tale she gave
 From painful Sewell's ancient tome,
 Beloved in every Quaker home,
 Of faith fire-winged by martyrdom,
 Or Chalkley's Journal, old and quaint, ─ 
 Gentlest of skippers, rare sea-saint! Be shame to him of woman born
 Who hath for such but thought of scorn. O heart sore-tried! How many a poor one's blessing went
 With thee beneath the low green tent
 Whose curtain never outward swings! With me one little year ago: ─ 
 Illustration
 The chill weight of the winter snow
 For months upon her grave has lain;
 And now, when summer south-winds blow,
 And brier and harebell bloom again,
 I tread the pleasant paths we trod,
 I see the violet-sprinkled sod
 Whereon she leaned, too frail and weak
 The hillside flowers she loved to seek,
 Yet following me where'er I went
 Illustration
 With dark eyes full of love's content. And yet, dear heart! remembering thee,
 Am I not richer than of old? What chance can mar the pearl and gold
 Thy love hath left in trust with me? Brisk wielder of the birch and rule,
 The master of the district school
 Held at the fire his favored place;
 Its warm glow lit a laughing face
 Fresh-hued and fair, where scarce appeared
 Illustration
 The uncertain prophecy of beard. Brows saintly calm and lips devout
 Knew every change of scowl and pout;
 And the sweet voice had notes more high
 And shrill for social battle-cry. Where'er her troubled path may be,
 The Lord's sweet pity with her go! Before us passed the painted Creeks,
 And daft McGregor on his raids
 In Costa Rica's everglades. Shut down and clasp the heavy lids;
 I hear again the voice that bids
 The dreamer leave his dream midway
 For larger hopes and graver fears:
 Life greatens in these later years,
 The century's aloe flowers to-day! Illustration