The Adventure of the Mazarin Stone
 It was pleasant for Dr. Watson to find himself once more in the untidy room of the first floor in Baker Street which had been the starting-point of so many remarkable adventures. "It all seems very unchanged, Billy. "I think he's in bed and asleep," he said. It was seven in the evening of a lovely summer's day, but Dr. Watson was sufficiently familiar with the irregularity of his old friend's hours to feel no surprise at the idea. "Yes, sir, he is very hard at it just now. You know his way when he is keen on a case." I don't mind telling you, sir, but it should go no farther. It's this case of the Crown diamond." They must get it back, sir. Mr. Holmes was very nice to them. Then there is Lord Cantlemere — "
 "Ah!" He's a stiff'un, sir, if I may say so. Billy detached the head and held it in the air. I wouldn't dare touch it if the blind were not down. "We used something of the sort once before." Watson had taken a step forward when the bedroom door opened, and the long, thin form of Holmes emerged, his face pale and drawn, but his step and bearing as active as ever. That boy is a problem, Watson. "Expecting what?" "To be murdered, Watson." Is alcohol permitted? I am a brain, Watson. "But this danger, Holmes?" yes, in case it should come off, it would perhaps be as well that you should burden your memory with the name and address of the murderer. You can give it to Scotland Yard, with my love and a parting blessing. Watson's honest face was twitching with anxiety. Watson was always the man of action, and he rose to the occasion. "Your morals don't improve, Watson. You have added fibbing to your other vices. "Yes, the great yellow Mazarin stone. The other is Sam Merton the boxer. You've seen me as an old lady, Watson. "Well, perhaps it might. "The man himself. Grasp the nettle, Watson! But not just yet. "That will be Sam Merton — the faithful but rather fatuous Sam. "If I am not in the room, show him in all the same." Watson waited until the door was closed, and then he turned earnestly to his companion. "I should not be surprised." Take a cab to Scotland Yard and give this to Youghal of the C. I. D. Come back with the police. "I'll do that with joy. He touched the bell. " As the door closed behind him he looked round him with fierce, startled eyes, like one who suspects a trap at every turn. He was crouching for his final spring and blow when a cool, sardonic voice greeted him from the open bedroom door:
 "Don't break it, Count! "It's a pretty little thing," said Holmes, advancing towards the image. " "Air-guns, sir! Pray take a seat. The Count scowled, with heavy, threatening eyebrows. But why these personal attentions?" Count Sylvius laughed contemptuously. "Other people can observe as well as you. "It was you — you yourself?" We all have neglected opportunities to deplore. What you say only makes the matter worse. You used to shoot lions in Algeria." "Sit down, sir, sit down! Well, I should say that, from your point of view, it is absolutely essential, for I know all about it, save only one thing, which you are about to tell me." If not, you will get hurt." "No, sir, I do not!" "Plenty more here, Count. "No, you're wrong there." It's the king of diamonds. I don't know where the stone is." Now, be reasonable, Count. Consider the situation. You are going to be locked up for twenty years. What good are you going to get out of your diamond? — it must be you and not the stone." "I think, Count, that it would be as well to have your friend Sam at this conference. "If he won't come, sir?" If you tell him that Count Sylvius wants him he will certainly come." "I have often had the same idea. Why not give ourselves up to the unrestrained enjoyment of the present?" Holmes's figure seemed to grow taller as he grew tense and ready. Nasty, noisy things, revolvers, Count. The prize-fighter, a heavily built young man with a stupid, obstinate, slab-sided face, stood awkwardly at the door, looking about him with a puzzled expression. "What's the game now, Count? I'm a busy man and I can't waste time. "Ikey Sanders has split on us." "That won't help us much. He's a leary cove that wants watching. "A fake, is it? Madame Tussaud ain't in it. "But he'll let us slip if we only tell him where the swag is." Merton scratched his short-cropped pate. "He is armed and ready. Save for the one strange figure seated in the chair, the room was certainly empty. "Something in the street," said Merton. " The stone is here in my secret pocket. But now he must get off by the next boat. One or other of us must slip round with the stone to Lime Street and tell him." You see, the damned fool won't arrest us if he can get the stone. Confound that whining music; it gets on my nerves! Come back here, out of a line with that keyhole. It must be very clear to you that your position is an impossible one. "But how the deuce — ?" "Your surprise is very natural. "A fair cop!" Holmes answered. " Let it play! These modern gramophones are a remarkable invention." Holmes laid his hand insistently upon the sleeve. My friend Dr. Watson would assure you that these changes of temperature are most insidious." I have no need to stay. "It is difficult — very difficult." Possibly you could help me upon
 "You apply for my advice rather late in the day. "When you have caught them." But the question is — how shall we proceed against the receiver?" Now, what would you regard as final evidence against the receiver?" "Most undoubtedly." "You take a great liberty, Mr. Holmes. In fifty years of official life I cannot recall such a case. "What do you mean, sir?" How is this, Mr. Holmes?" I took the liberty — the very great liberty, I admit — of putting the stone into your pocket at the beginning of our interview."