The Witch of Atlas
 1. What, though no mice are caught by a young kitten,
 May it not leap and play as grown cats do,
 Till its claws come? Prithee, for this one time,
 Content thee with a visionary rhyme. — O, let me not believe
 That anything of mine is fit to live! My Witch indeed is not so sweet a creature
 As Ruth or Lucy, whom his graceful praise
 Clothes for our grandsons — but she matches Peter,
 Though he took nineteen years, and she three days
 In dressing. THE WITCH OF ATLAS. The magic circle of her voice and eyes
 All savage natures did imparadise. The Witch beheld it not, for in her hand
 She held a woof that dimmed the burning brand. Its emerald crags glowed in her beauty's glance;
 Through the green splendour of the water deep
 She saw the constellations reel and dance
 Like fire-flies — and withal did ever keep
 The tenour of her contemplations calm,
 With open eyes, closed feet, and folded palm. The silver noon into that winding dell,
 With slanted gleam athwart the forest tops,
 Tempered like golden evening, feebly fell;
 A green and glowing light, like that which drops
 From folded lilies in which glow-worms dwell,
 When Earth over her face Night's mantle wraps;
 Between the severed mountains lay on high,
 Over the stream, a narrow rift of sky. And ever down the prone vale, like a cloud
 Upon a stream of wind, the pinnace went:
 Now lingering on the pools, in which abode
 The calm and darkness of the deep content
 In which they paused; now o'er the shallow road
 Of white and dancing waters, all besprent
 With sand and polished pebbles: — mortal boat
 In such a shallow rapid could not float. And when the wizard lady would ascend
 The labyrinths of some many-winding vale,
 Which to the inmost mountain upward tend — 
 She called 'Hermaphroditus!' Where, like a meadow which no scythe has shaven,
 Which rain could never bend, or whirl-blast shake,
 With the Antarctic constellations paven,
 Canopus and his crew, lay the Austral lake — 
 There she would build herself a windless haven
 Out of the clouds whose moving turrets make
 The bastions of the storm, when through the sky
 The spirits of the tempest thundered by:
 49. These were tame pleasures; she would often climb
 The steepest ladder of the crudded rack
 Up to some beaked cape of cloud sublime,
 And like Arion on the dolphin's back
 Ride singing through the shoreless air; — oft-time
 Following the serpent lightning's winding track,
 She ran upon the platforms of the wind,
 And laughed to hear the fire-balls roar behind. A pleasure sweet doubtless it was to see
 Mortals subdued in all the shapes of sleep. And little did the sight disturb her soul. — 
 The peasants in their huts, and in the port
 The sailors she saw cradled on the waves,
 And the dead lulled within their dreamless graves. But these and all now lay with sleep upon them,
 And little thought a Witch was looking on them. She, all those human figures breathing there,
 Beheld as living spirits — to her eyes
 The naked beauty of the soul lay bare,
 And often through a rude and worn disguise
 She saw the inner form most bright and fair — 
 And then she had a charm of strange device,
 Which, murmured on mute lips with tender tone,
 Could make that spirit mingle with her own. Or how much, Venus, of thy silver heaven
 Wouldst thou have yielded, ere Proserpina
 Had half (oh! why not all?) 'Tis said in after times her spirit free
 Knew what love was, and felt itself alone — 
 But holy Dian could not chaster be
 Before she stooped to kiss Endymion,
 Than now this lady — like a sexless bee
 Tasting all blossoms, and confined to none,
 Among those mortal forms, the wizard-maiden
 Passed with an eye serene and heart unladen. And there the body lay, age after age. Friends who, by practice of some envious skill,
 Were torn apart — a wide wound, mind from mind!