The Witch of Atlas
 1. What, though no mice are caught by a young kitten,
 May it not leap and play as grown cats do,
 Till its claws come? Prithee, for this one time,
 Content thee with a visionary rhyme. — O, let me not believe
 That anything of mine is fit to live! Light the vest of flowing metre
 She wears; he, proud as dandy with his stays,
 Has hung upon his wiry limbs a dress
 Like King Lear's 'looped and windowed raggedness.' THE WITCH OF ATLAS. Picturing her form; her soft smiles shone afar,
 And her low voice was heard like love, and drew
 All living things towards this wonder new. The magic circle of her voice and eyes
 All savage natures did imparadise. And every nymph of stream and spreading tree,
 And every shepherdess of Ocean's flocks,
 Who drives her white waves over the green sea,
 And Ocean with the brine on his gray locks,
 And quaint Priapus with his company,
 All came, much wondering how the enwombed rocks
 Could have brought forth so beautiful a birth; — 
 Her love subdued their wonder and their mirth. And there lay Visions swift, and sweet, and quaint,
 Each in its thin sheath, like a chrysalis,
 Some eager to burst forth, some weak and faint
 With the soft burthen of intensest bliss. It was its work to bear to many a saint
 Whose heart adores the shrine which holiest is,
 Even Love's: — and others white, green, gray, and black,
 And of all shapes — and each was at her beck. At first she lived alone in this wild home,
 And her own thoughts were each a minister,
 Clothing themselves, or with the ocean foam,
 Or with the wind, or with the speed of fire,
 To work whatever purposes might come
 Into her mind; such power her mighty Sire
 Had girt them with, whether to fly or run,
 Through all the regions which he shines upon. Its emerald crags glowed in her beauty's glance;
 Through the green splendour of the water deep
 She saw the constellations reel and dance
 Like fire-flies — and withal did ever keep
 The tenour of her contemplations calm,
 With open eyes, closed feet, and folded palm. From its smooth shoulders hung two rapid wings,
 Fit to have borne it to the seventh sphere,
 Tipped with the speed of liquid lightenings,
 Dyed in the ardours of the atmosphere:
 She led her creature to the boiling springs
 Where the light boat was moored, and said: 'Sit here!' And pointed to the prow, and took her seat
 Beside the rudder, with opposing feet. And ever as she went, the Image lay
 With folded wings and unawakened eyes;
 And o'er its gentle countenance did play
 The busy dreams, as thick as summer flies,
 Chasing the rapid smiles that would not stay,
 And drinking the warm tears, and the sweet sighs
 Inhaling, which, with busy murmur vain,
 They had aroused from that full heart and brain. Or, when the weary moon was in the wane,
 Or in the noon of interlunar night,
 The lady-witch in visions could not chain
 Her spirit; but sailed forth under the light
 Of shooting stars, and bade extend amain
 Its storm-outspeeding wings, the Hermaphrodite;
 She to the Austral waters took her way,
 Beyond the fabulous Thamondocana, — 
 48. A pleasure sweet doubtless it was to see
 Mortals subdued in all the shapes of sleep. And little did the sight disturb her soul. But these and all now lay with sleep upon them,
 And little thought a Witch was looking on them. why not all?) the debt forgiven
 Which dear Adonis had been doomed to pay,
 To any witch who would have taught you it? The Heliad doth not know its value yet. And there the body lay, age after age.