The Adventure of the Mazarin Stone
 It was pleasant for Dr. Watson to find himself once more in the untidy room of the first floor in Baker Street which had been the starting-point of so many remarkable adventures. "He's following someone. "But what is it all about, Billy?" He's a stiff'un, sir, if I may say so. But I say, Billy, what is that curtain for across the window?" Billy advanced and drew away the drapery which screened the alcove of the bow window. That boy is a problem, Watson. But we may be comfortable in the meantime, may we not? Is alcohol permitted? The rest of me is a mere appendix. You can give it to Scotland Yard, with my love and a parting blessing. "Count me in, Holmes. What is the use of taking them? But he is flopping about in my net all the same." I was never more convincing. "It might have been tragedy." "Well, perhaps it might. Have you seen the dummy? "The man himself. I had hardly expected this. A man of nerve. Possibly you have heard of his reputation as a shooter of big game. It would indeed be a triumphant ending to his excellent sporting record if he added me to his bag. This is a proof that he feels my toe very close behind his heel." "I probably shall. "That will be Sam Merton — the faithful but rather fatuous Sam. Where is this gentleman, Billy?" He may have come to murder you." "Yes, you can, Watson. As the door closed behind him he looked round him with fierce, startled eyes, like one who suspects a trap at every turn. What do you mean?" Pray take a seat. Would you care to put your revolver out also? That is why I am here. "Because you have gone out of your way to annoy me. "Excellent! "Really, sir, you compliment me. Old Baron Dowson said the night before he was hanged that in my case what the law had gained the stage had lost. I was well aware of it. We all have neglected opportunities to deplore. "My reasons in a nutshell!" There was another, more practical, reason. Count Sylvius lay back in his chair with an evil smile. And pray, what is this missing fact?" Oh, you want to know that, do you? How the devil should I be able to tell you where it is?" Then you do know. "Now, Count, if you will be reasonable we can do business. And you talk about bluff!" Holmes looked at him thoughtfully like a master chess-player who meditates his crowning move. "Do you know what I keep in this book?" There are limits to my patience!" "It's all here, Count. "Plenty more here, Count. "Gently, Count. Restrain that eager mind! I have Ikey Sanders, who refused to cut it up for you. But one card is missing. It's the king of diamonds. "You never shall know." None in the world. We want the stone. Billy, you will see a large and ugly gentleman outside the front door. "What are you going to do now?" I told him that I had a shark and a gudgeon in my net; now I am drawing the net and up they come together." "You won't die in your bed, Holmes." Does it matter very much? A sudden wild-beast light sprang up in the dark, menacing eyes of the master criminal. The prize-fighter, a heavily built young man with a stupid, obstinate, slab-sided face, stood awkwardly at the door, looking about him with a puzzled expression. His voice was deep and raucous. "No, I expect not," said Holmes. " "Good Lord!" "He has, has he? "Half a mo'," said the boxer, looking suspiciously at the bedroom door. " "That's right. Well, strike me! "Oh, confound the curtains! We are wasting our time, and there is none too much. Give it up? Give up a hundred thousand quid?" The Count shook his head. Besides, it's likely enough that the police know whatever evidence he has got. What was that?" Save for the one strange figure seated in the chair, the room was certainly empty. Surely you can think a way out of it. "Well, he must take it as it is and chance it. "As to Holmes," he continued, "we can fool him easily enough. I'll tell him that the stone is in Liverpool. "I wonder you dare carry it." "Where could I have it safer? See here, mister, I'm getting a bit tired of your ways." "Well, well, no offence, Sam. We can't afford to quarrel. Now hold it to the light! Consider the furniture! The police are waiting below." The Count's bewilderment overmastered his rage and fear. "But how the deuce — ?" You are perfectly right. Let it play! Dare we venture upon a slight liberty? It is chilly for the time of year, but rather warm indoors. I have no need to stay. There was a distinct sneer in the old courtier's words and manner. "No doubt." "The actual possession of the stone." Lord Cantlemere was very angry. "You take a great liberty, Mr. Holmes. Let me pass." "What do you mean, sir?" "Come — come, do what I ask." I took the liberty — the very great liberty, I admit — of putting the stone into your pocket at the beginning of our interview." But — yes — it is indeed the Mazarin stone. No doubt, Lord Cantlemere, your pleasure in telling of this successful result in the exalted circle to which you return will be some small atonement for my practical joke. Billy, you will show his Lordship out, and tell Mrs. Hudson that I should be glad if she would send up dinner for two as soon as possible."