

MIKE RESNICK

THE ROOSEVELT DISPATCHES



Shot and killed a most unusual beast this afternoon. Letters of inquiry go off
tomorrow to the various museums to see which of them would like the mounted
specimen once I have finished studying it.

Tropical rain continues unabated. Many of the men are down with influenza, and
in the case of poor Westmore it looks like we shall lose him to pneumonia before
the week is out. Still awaiting orders, now that San Juan Hill and the
surrounding countryside is secured. It may well be that we should remain here
until we know that the island is totally free from any more of the creatures
that I shot this afternoon.

It's quite late. Just time for a two-mile run and a chapter of Jane Austen, and
then off to bed.

Letter from Theodore Roosevelt to F. C. Selous, July 12, 1898:

My Dear Selous:

I had a most remarkable experience in Cuba this week, one that I feel compelled
to share with you. I had just led my Rough Riders in a victorious campaign in
Cuba. We were still stationed there, awaiting orders to return home. With
nothing better to do, I spent many happy hours bird-watching, and the event in
question occurred late one afternoon when I was making my way through a riverine
forest in search of the Long-billed Curlew.

Afternoon had just passed into twilight, and as I made my way through the dense
vegetation I had the distinct feeling that I was no longer alone, that an entity
at least as large as myself was lurking nearby. I couldn't imagine what it might
be, for to the best of my knowledge the tapir and the jaguar do not inhabit the
islands of the Caribbean.

I proceeded more cautiously, and in another twenty yards I came to a halt and
found myself facing a thing the size of one of our American grizzlies. The only
comparably sized animal within your experience would probably be the mountain
gorilla, but this creature was at least thirty percent larger than the largest
of the silverbacks.

The head was round, and was totally without a nose! The eyes were large, dark,
and quite widely spread. The mouth was V-shaped and lipless, and drooled
constantly.

It was brown – not the brown of an impala or a koodoo, but rather the slick
moist brown of a sea-slug, its body glistening as if greased. The thing had no
arms as such, but it did have a number of long, sinewy tentacles, each seemingly
the thickness and strength of an elephant's trunk.

It took one look at me, made a sound that was half-growl and half-roar, and
charged. I had no idea of its offensive capabilities, but I didn't like the look
of those tentacles, so I quickly raised my Winchester to my shoulder and fired
at almost point-blank range. I could hear the smack! of the bullet as it bounced
off the trunk of the beast's body. The creature continued to approach me, and I
hurled myself aside at the last instant, barely avoiding two of its outstretched
tentacles.

I rolled as I hit the ground, and fired once more from a prone position, right
into the open V of its mouth. This time there was a reaction, and a violent one.
The thing hooted noisily and began tearing up pieces of the turf, all the while
shaking its head vigorously. Within seconds it was literally uprooting large
bushes and shredding them as if they were no more than mere tissue paper.

I waited until it was facing in my direction again and put a bullet into its
left eye. Again, the reaction was startling: the creature began ripping apart
nearby trees and screaming at such a pitch that all the nearby bird life fled in

By that point I must confess that I was looking for some means of retreat, for I
know of no animal that could take a rifle bullet in the mouth and another in the
eye and still remain not just standing but aggressive and formidable. ! trained
my rifle on the brute and began backing away.

My movement seemed to have caught its attention, for suddenly it ceased its
ravings and turned to face me. Then it began advancing slowly and purposefully – and a moment later it did something that no animal anywhere in the world has
ever done: it produced a weapon.

The thing looked like a sword, but when the creature pointed it at me, a beam of
light shot out of it, missing me only by inches, and instantly setting the bush
beside me ablaze. I jumped in the opposite direction as it fired its sword of
heat again, and again the forest combusted in a blinding conflagration.

I turned and raced back the way I had come. After perhaps sixty yards I chanced
a look back, and saw that the creature was following me. However, despite its
many physical attributes, speed was not to be counted among them. I used that to
my advantage, putting enough distance between us so that it lost sight of me. I
then jumped into the nearby river, making sure that no water should invade my
rifle. Here, at least, I felt safe from the indirect effects of the creature's
heat weapon.

It came down the path some forty seconds later. Rather than shooting it
immediately, I let it walk by while I studied it, looking for vulnerable areas.
The thing bore no body armor as such, not even the type of body plating that our
mutual friend Corbett describes on the Indian rhino, yet its skin seemed
impervious to bullets. Its body, which I now could see in its entirety, was
almost perfectly spherical except for the head and tentacles, and there were no
discernable weak or thin spots where head and tentacles joined the trunk.

Still, I couldn't let it continue along the path, because sooner or later it
would come upon my men, who were totally unprepared for it. I looked for an
earhole, could not find one, and with only the back of its head to shoot at felt
that I could not do it any damage. So I stood up, waist deep in the water, and
yelled at it. It turned toward me, and as it did so I put two more bullets into
its left eye.

Its reaction was the same as before, but much shorter in duration. Then it
regained control of itself, stared balefully at me through both eyes – the good
one and the one that had taken three bullets – and began walking toward me,
weapon in hand... and therein I thought I saw a way by which I might finally
disable it.

I began walking backward in the water, and evidently the creature felt some
doubt about the weapon's accuracy, because it entered the water and came after
me. I stood motionless, my sights trained on the sword of heat. When the
creature was perhaps thirty yards from me, it came to a halt and raised its
weapon – and as it did so, I fired.

The sword of heat flew from the creature's hand, spraying its deadly light in
all directions. Then it fell into the water, its muzzle – if that is the right
word, and I very much suspect that it isn't – pointing at the creature. The
water around it began boiling and hissing as steam rose, and the creature
screeched once and sank beneath the surface of the river.

It took about five minutes before [felt safe in approaching it – after all, I
had no idea how long it could hold its breath – but sure enough, as I had
hoped, the beast was dead.

I have never before seen anything like it, and I will be stuffing and mounting
this specimen for either the American Museum or t he Smithsonian. I'll send you
a copy of my notes, and hopefully a number of photographs taken at various
stages of the post mortem examination and the mounting.

I realize that I was incredibly lucky to have survived. I don't know how many
more such creatures exist here in the jungles of Cuba, but they are too
malevolent to be allowed to survive and wreak their havoc on the innocent locals
here. They must be eradicated, and I know of no hunter with whom I would rather
share this expedition than yourself. I will put my gun and my men at your
disposal, and hopefully we can rid the island of this most unlikely and lethal
aberration.
Yours,
Roosevelt

Letter to Carl Akeley, hunter and taxidermist, c o The American Museum of
Natural History, July 13, 1898:

Dear Carl:

Sorry to have missed you at the last annual banquet, but as you know, I've been
preoccupied with matters here in Cuba.

Allow me to ask you a purely hypothetical question: could a life form exist that
has no stomach or digestive tract? Let me further hypothesize that this life
form ingests the blood of its prey – other living creatures – directly into its
veins.

First, is it possible?

Second, could such a form of nourishment supply sufficient energy to power a
body the size of, say, a grizzly bear?

I realize that you are a busy man, but while I cannot go into detail, I beg you
to give these questions your most urgent attention.
Yours very truly,
Theodore Roosevelt

Letter to Dr. Joel A. Allen, Curator of Birds and Mammals, American Museum of
Natural History, July 13, 1898:

Dear Joel:

I have a strange but, please believe me, very serious question for you.

Can a complex animal life form exist without gender? Could it possibly
reproduce – don't laugh – by budding? Could a complex life form reproduce by
splitting apart, as some of our single-celled animals do?

Please give me your answers soonest.
Yours very truly,
Theodore Roosevelt

Excerpts from monograph submitted by Theodore Roosevelt on July 14, 1898 for
publication by the American Museum of Natural History:... The epidermis is especially unique, not only in its thickness and
pliability, but also in that there is no layer of subcutaneous fat, nor can I
discern any likely source for the secretion of the oily liquid that covers the
entire body surface of the creature.

One of the more unusual features is the total absence of a stomach, intestine,
or any other internal organ that could be used for digestion. My own conclusion,
which I hasten to add is not based on observation, is that nourishment is
ingested directly into the bloodstream from the blood of other animals.

The V-shaped mouth was most puzzling, for what use can a mouth be to a life form
that has no need of eating? But as i continued examining the creature, I
concluded that I was guilty of a false assumption, based on the placement of the
"mouth". The V-shaped opening is not a mouth at all, but rather a breathing
orifice, which I shall not call a nose simply because it is also the source of
the creature's vocalizations, if I may so term the growls and shrieks that
emanate from it... Perhaps the most interesting feature of the eye is not the multi-faceted' pupil,
nor even the purple-and-brown cornea, which doubtless distorts its ability to
see colors as we do, but rather the bird-like nictitating membrane, (or haw, as
this inner eyelid is called in dogs) which protects it from harm. Notice that
although it could not possibly have known the purpose or effects of my rifle, it
nonetheless managed to lower it quickly enough to shield the eye from the main
force of my bullet. Indeed; as is apparent from even a cursory examination of
the haw, the healing process is so incredibly rapid that although I shot it
three times in the left eye, the three wounds are barely discernable, even
though the bullets passed entirely through the haw and buried themselves at the
back of the eye.

I cannot believe that the creature's color can possibly be considered protective
coloration... but then, I do not accept the concept of protective coloration
to begin with. Consider the zebra: were it brown or black, it would be no easier
to spot at, say, a quarter mile, than a wildebeest or topi or prong-horned
deer – but because God saw fit to give it black and white stripes, it stands out
at more than half a mile, giving notice of its presence to all predators,
thereby negating the not ion of protective coloration, for the zebra's stripes
are, if anything, anti-protective, and yet it is one of the most successful
animals in Africa. Thus, while the creature I shot is indeed difficult to pick
out in what I assume to be its natural forest surroundings, I feel that it is
brown by chance rather than design.... Field conditions are rather primitive here, but I counted more than one
hundred separate muscles in the largest of the tentacles, and must assume there
are at least another two hundred that I was unable to discern. This is the only
section of the body that seems crisscrossed with nerves, and it is conceivable
that if the creature can be slowed by shock, a bullet placed in the cluster of
nerves and blood vessels where the tentacle joins the trunk of the body will do
the trick... The brain was a surprise to me. It is actually three to four times larger and
heavier, in proportion to the body, than a man's brain is in proportion to his
body. This, plus the fact that the creature used a weapon (which, alas, was lost
in the current of the river), leads me to the startling but inescapable
conclusion that what we have here is a species of intelligence at least equal
to, and probably greater than, our own.

Respectfully submitted on this 14th day of July, 1898, by
Theodore Roosevelt, Colonel
United States Armed Forces

Letter to Willis Maynard Crenshaw, of Winchester Rifles, July 14, 1898:

Dear Mr. Crenshaw:

Enclosed you will find a sample of skin from a newly discovered animal. The
texture is such that it is much thicker than elephant or rhinoceros hide, though
it in no way resembles the skin of either pachyderm.

However, I'm not asking you to analyze the skin, at least not scientifically.
What I want you to do is come up with a rifle and a bullet that will penetrate
the skin.

Just as importantly, I shall need stopping power. Assume the animal will weigh
just under a ton, but has remarkable vitality. Given the terrain, I'll most
likely be shooting from no more than twenty yards, so I probably won't have time
for too many second shots. The first shot must bring it down from the force of
the bullet, even if no vital organs are hit.

Please let me know when you have a prototype that I can test in the field, and
please make no mention of this to anyone except the artisans who will be working
on the project.

Thank you.
Yours very truly,
Theodore Roosevelt

Private hand-delivered message from Theodore Roosevelt to President William
McKinley, July 17, 1898:

Dear Mr. President:

Certain facts have come to my attention that make it imperative that you neither
recall the Rough Riders from the Island of Cuba, nor disband them upon signing
the Armistice with Spain.

There is something here, on this island, that is so evil, so powerful, so
inimical to all men, that I do not believe I am exaggerating when I tell you
that the entire human race is threatened by its very existence. I will make no
attempt to describe it, for should said description fall into the wrong hands we
could start a national panic if it is believed or become figures of public
ridicule if it is not.

You will simply have to trust me that the threat is a very real one.
Furthermore, I urge you not to recall any of our troops, for if my suspicions
are correct we may need all of them and still more.
Col. Theodore Roosevelt
"The Rough Riders"

Letter to Secretary of War Russell A. Alger, July 20, 1898:

Dear Russell:

McKinley is a fool! I warned him of perhaps the greatest threat yet to the
people of America, and indeed to the world, and he has treated it as a joke.

Listen to me: it is essential that you cancel the recall order immediately and
let my Rough Riders remain in Cuba. Furthermore, I want the entire army on
standby notice, and if you're wise you'll transfer at least half of our forces
to Florida, for that seems the likeliest spot for the invasion to begin.

I will be coming to Washington to speak to McKinley personally and try to
convince him of the danger facing us. Anything you can do to pave the way will
be appreciated.
Regards,
Roosevelt

Speech delivered from the balcony above the Columbia Restaurant, Tampa, Florida,
August 3, 1898:

My fellow Americans:

It has lately come to your government's attention that there is a threat to the
national security – indeed, to the security of the world – that currently
lurks in the jungles of Cuba. I have seen it with my own eyes, and ! assure you
that no matter what you may hear in the days and weeks to come, the danger is
real and cannot be underestimated.

Shortly after my Rough Riders took San Juan Hill, I encountered something in the
nearby jungle so incredible that a description of it would only arouse your
skepticism and your disbelief. It was a creature, quite probably intelligent,
the like of which has never before been seen on this Earth. I am and always have
been a vociferous Darwinian, but despite my knowledge of the biological
sciences, I cannot begin to hazard a guess concerning how this creature evolved.

What I can tell you is that it has developed the ability to create weapons
unlike any we have seen, and that it has no compunction about using them against
human beings. It is an evil and malevolent life form, and it must be eradicated
before it can turn its hatred loose against innocent Americans.

I was fortunate enough to kill the one I encountered in Cuba, but where there is
one there will certainly be more. The United States government was originally
dubious about the veracity of my claim, but I gather that recent information
forwarded to the White House and the State Department from England, where more
of these creatures have appeared, has finally convinced them that I was telling
the truth.

Thus far none of the creatures has been discovered in the United States, but I
say to you that it would be foolhardy to wait until they are found before coming
up with an appropriate response. Americans have always been willing to make
sacrifices and take up arms to defend their country, and this will be no
exception. These creatures may have had their momentary successes against Cuban
peasants and an unprepared Great Britain, but I tell you confidently they have
no chance against an army of motivated Americans, driven by the indomitable
American spirit and displaying the unshakable courage of all true Americans.

To us as a people it has been granted to lay the foundations of our national
life on a new continent. We are the heirs of the ages, and yet we have had to
pay few of the penalties which in old countries are exacted by the bygone hand
of a dead civilization. We have not been obliged to fight for our existence
against any alien challenge – until now. I believe we are up to the challenge,
and I am convinced that you believe so too.

I am leaving for Miami tomorrow, and from there I will be departing for Cuba two
days later, to lead my men into battle against however many of these creatures
exist in the dank rotting jungles of that tropical island. I urge every
red-blooded able-bodied American among you to join me on this greatest of
adventures.

Letter to Kermit, Theodore junior, Archie and Quentin Roosevelt, August 5, 1898:

Dear Boys:

Tomorrow I embark on a great and exciting safari. I'm sure the details will be
wired back to the newspapers on a daily basis, but I promise that when I return
we'll sit around a campfire at Sagamore Hill and I'll tell you all the stories
that the press never reported. Not only that, but I will bring back a trophy for
each and every one of you.

School will be starting before I return. I expect each of you to go to class
prepared for his lessons, and to apply your minds as vigorously as you apply
your bodies to the games you play at home. Had I been slow of wit or of body I
would not have survived my initial encounter with the creatures I shall be
hunting in the coming days and weeks. Always remember that balance is the key in
all things.
Love,
Father

Letter to Edith Carow Roosevelt, August 5, 1898:

My Dearest Edith:

My ship leaves tomorrow morning so it will perhaps be some weeks before I have
the opportunity to write to you again.

Shortly I shall be off on the greatest hunt of my life. Give my love to the
children. I wish the boys were just a little bit older, so that I could take
them along on what promises to be the most exciting of endeavors.

I am still trying to rid myself of the cold I picked up when I plunged into that
river in Cuba, but other than that I feel fit as a bull moose. It will take a
lot more than a strange beast and a runny nose to bring a true American to his
knees. The coming days should be just bully!
Your Theodore
